.\" Manpage for npd6.
.\" Contact sgroarke@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 8 "07 August 2011" "0.4.1" "npd6 man page"
.SH NAME
npd6 \- neighbor proxy daemon ipv6
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B npd6
.B "[ \-hvcdDf]"
.BI "[ \-c " configfile " ]"
.BI "[ \-l " logfile " ]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
npd6 is a daemon which listens on a nominated interface for IPv6 Neighbor Solicitations which match a defined prefix. If received it will then answer them with an appropriate Neighbor Advertisement.

npd6 is configured using a config file (default /etc/npd6.conf) and also has a number of cli options to enable various levels of logging, debug, etc.


.SH OPTIONS
.B -h, --help
.RS
Displays short usage summary and then exits.

.RE
.B -v, --version
.RS
Displays the version of npd6 and then exits.

.RE
.TP
.BI "-c " "configfile" ", --config " "configfile"
Alternate config file. Default is /etc/npd6.conf See npd6.conf(5).

.RE
.B -d, --debug
.RS
Enabled debug logging - moderate.

.RE
.B -D, --debug2
.RS
Enabled debug logging - lots.

.RE
.B -f, --foreground
.RS
Run npd6 in the foreground, staying attached to the terminal. Default is that it daemonizes itself otherwise.

.RE
.TP
.BI "-l " "logfile" ", --logfile " "logfile"
The default is that npd6 logs via syslog. This parameter tells it to log directly to the nominated file. 

.RE

.SH FILES
.I /etc/npd6.conf
.RS
Default configuration file.
.RE
.I /var/log/npd6
.RS
Default log file (if used)
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
npd6.conf(5)

.SH BUGS
No known bugs - Please report them to npd6Project@gmail.com
.SH AUTHOR
Sean Groarke (sgroarke@gmail.com)
